ODDB.org stands for OpenDrugDatabase 
====================================

Date: 2008-08-12-13:41

Short Description: ODDB.org is an OpenDrugDatabase that enables the
search for Drugs by their ActiveAgent, Name, Producer, ATC-Code.  You
can do a price comparison between the Original Drug and the Generic by
Clicking on the Drug's Name. The database tells you when the Drug has
been registred in Switzerland. ODDB.org exports the complete Data in the
YAML.org Format (15'881 registred products).

For for more information about the background see:

	* http://www.ywesee.com
	* http://www.oddb.org
	* http://dev.ywesee.com

Requirements
------------

	* ruby 1.8, mod_ruby, drbsession, spreadsheet 
	* apache, ruby-zlib, rubyzip, tarsimple, madeleine, rockit, tmail  
	* rpdf2txt, rwv2, htmlgrid, datastructure, parseexcel, session-management*) 
	
Install 
------- 

Just copy everything into a directory of your choice, Configure your
favorite Webserver to serve the $ODDBDIR/doc directory and to rewrite
urls as follows: http://your.tld/(\w{2})/(\w+)/(\w+)/(\w+) =>
http://your.tld/index.rbx?language=\1&flavor=\2&\3=\4 If you're
interested in having the data that we provide online we can send you our
ODBA snapshot.  Please contact us: zdavatz@ywesee.com

Install Instructions
--------------------

	* http://dev.ywesee.com/wiki.php/Oddb/InstallOddb

Usage
-----

	* Normal Consumer
	* Health Insurance (Krankenkasse)
	* Pharmacie
	* Hospital
	* Doctor / Physician
	* Pharma Marketing

Background
----------
	
A discussion on http://www.linuxmednews.org 

Post by Zeno: In Switzerland we have the problem that there is only one
provider of the data. And that provider serves all hospitals, doctors,
old age homes, pharmacies etc. As they have the monopoly the could issue
a tax on every transaction that is done with there data; Example: The
docotor in the hospital prescribes one drug to the patient. That info
goes into the system and then gets passed on the specialist (external of
hospital) and then gets passed on to the insurance etc. Imagine you
must pay 50cent for every transaction of the data...  

Post by Tim: This certainly carries some pretty scary scenarios. Are
there not laws to prevent abuse? It would seem that a government
monoploy has been issued here and there would be protections in place.

Post by Zeno: 1. Yes, that is exactly the problem. The company that has
the monopoly also is working for the government and administrating the
database of all drugs that are covered by the public health insurance.
2. I have taken the above issues to antitrust department and the 'price
governing' department of Switzerland. The first pushed the issue to the
second and vice versa. I then contacted the leading consumer
representative of Switzerland and she gave the issue some momentum.  3.
The result of the above is ODDB.org an independent database for
Switzerland. My personal interest is the acceleration of the electronic
data interchange in the healthcare industry. This can only take place on
open standards.

More here:
	
	* http://www.ywesee.com/pmwiki.php/Main/WekoBlog
	* http://www.ywesee.com/pmwiki.php/Main/Bundesgerichtsurteil

License
-------

	* LGPL
	
Source Code Download with GIT
-----------------------------

	* URL: http://scm.ywesee.com/oddb.org

Authors
-------

	* ywesee GmbH

	* Hannes Wyss <hwyss@ywesee.com>
	* Markus Huggler <maege@ywesee.com>
	* Mike Walder <walder@allink.ch> 
	* Raphael Waltert <rwaltert@ywesee.com>
	* Andreas Schrafl <aschrafl@ywesee.com>
	* Benjamin Fay <benfay@ywesee.com> 

README Author
-------------

	* Zeno Davatz <zdavatz@ywesee.com>
